add new blog post on opentelemetry in nextjs (#9961)
highlight/highlight: blog-content/the-complete-guide-to-opentelemetry-in-next-js.md

---
title: The complete guide to OpenTelemetry in Next.js
createdAt: 2025-02-10T12:00:00.000Z
readingTime: 21
authorFirstName: Vadim
authorLastName: Korolik
authorTitle: CTO @ Highlight
authorTwitter: 'https://twitter.com/vkorolik'
authorLinkedIn: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/vkorolik/'
authorGithub: 'https://github.com/Vadman97'
authorWebsite: 'https://vadweb.us'
authorPFP: 'https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/AOh14Gh1k7XsVMGxHMLJZ7qesyddqn1y4EKjfbodEYiY=s96-c'
tags: 'Engineering, Backend, Observability'
metaTitle: The complete guide to OpenTelemetry in Next.js
---

```hint

> Highlight.io is an [open source](https://github.com/highlight/highlight) monitoring platform. If you’re interested in learning more, get started at [highlight.io](https://highlight.io).

Reviewer: Nit, but "get started" doesn't sound like something I'd want to do if I'm just interested in "learning more" - maybe we should just say "Learn more or try it out at [highlight.io](https://highlight.io)"?

```
<br/>

OpenTelemetry is an important specification that defines how we send telemetry data to observability backends like Highlight.io, Grafana, and others. OpenTelemetry is great because it is vendor agnostic, and can be used with several observability backends. If you're new to OpenTelemetry, you can learn more about it [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ASgosEzG4Pw). 

Today, we'll go through a complete guide to using OpenTelemetry in Python, including the high-level concepts as well as how to send traces and logs to your OpenTelemetry backend of choice.

## Setting Up OpenTelemetry for Next.js: Tracing, Logging, and Metrics

> Observability is crucial for understanding the performance and behavior of your Next.js application. OpenTelemetry (OTel) provides a robust framework for tracing, logging, and metrics collection, allowing you to gain deep insights into how your application operates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Observability is crucial for understanding the performance and behavior of your Next.js application. OpenTelemetry (OTel) provides a robust framework for collecting the observability data you need to gain deep insights into how your application operates.
```

In this guide, we’ll walk through setting up OpenTelemetry in a Next.js project, covering:
- Tracing: Capturing distributed traces for API requests and page transitions
- Logging: Collecting structured logs that correlate with traces
- Metrics: Exporting performance and custom application metrics

> - Built-in Spans: Leveraging Next.js’s automatic spans and debugging with NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Built-in Spans: Leveraging Next.js’s automatic spans and debugging with `NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE`
```

- Exception Tracking: Capturing errors within traces
- Simplifying Setup with @vercel/otel

> By the end of this tutorial, you’ll have OpenTelemetry integrated into your Next.js project with traces, logs, and metrics exported to your preferred backend.

Reviewer: Nit, but feels duplicative to the previous sentence. Maybe we could say something about how you'll have all the observability data you need to be proactively notified if something goes wrong, troubleshoot issues quickly, find and fix performance bottlenecks, etc.?

### Installing OpenTelemetry in Next.js

To get started, install the necessary OpenTelemetry dependencies:

```bash
yarn add @opentelemetry/api @opentelemetry/sdk-node @opentelemetry/instrumentation-http @opentelemetry/instrumentation-fetch @opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc @opentelemetry/exporter-metrics-otlp-grpc @opentelemetry/resources @opentelemetry/semantic-conventions
```

This setup includes the core OpenTelemetry API, SDK, HTTP and Fetch instrumentations, and OTLP exporters for traces and metrics.

> ### Setting Up OpenTelemetry SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting Up the OpenTelemetry SDK
```

Create a new file `otel.js` at the root of your Next.js project:

```javascript
import { NodeSDK } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-node';
import { ConsoleSpanExporter } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base';
import { OTLPTraceExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc';
import { OTLPMetricExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-metrics-otlp-grpc';
import { Resource } from '@opentelemetry/resources';
import { SEMRESOURCENAME } from '@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions';
import { HttpInstrumentation } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-http';
import { FetchInstrumentation } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-fetch';

const sdk = new NodeSDK({
  resource: new Resource({
    [SEMRESOURCENAME.SERVICE_NAME]: 'nextjs-app',
  }),
  traceExporter: new OTLPTraceExporter(), 
  metricExporter: new OTLPMetricExporter(), 
  instrumentations: [new HttpInstrumentation(), new FetchInstrumentation()],
});

sdk.start();

> console.log('OpenTelemetry initialized');

Reviewer: Think we should mention anything about this not being compatible with edge runtime and tease the future state we'll get to that supports it later on?

```

To trigger this file to run when the app starts, you can invoke it from the Next.js magic `instrumentation.js` file.

```javascript
import './otel';
```

The [instrumentation.js file](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/instrumentation) is automatically detected by Next.js and will run when the app starts. Before Next.js 15, the instrumentation is experimental, so you will have to enable it explicitly:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  experimental: {
    instrumentationHook: true,
  },
};
```

### Enabling OpenTelemetry in Next.js

> Automatic Spans in Next.js

Reviewer: Is this an unfinished thought?

Next.js has built-in OpenTelemetry spans for various parts of the application, including:
- API routes (pages/api or app/api)
- Page router (Pages Directory)

> - App router (App Directory)

Reviewer: There's a lot more mentioned in https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/open-telemetry#default-spans-in-nextjs - think it's worth mentioning anything besides the router spans?

To enable verbose OpenTelemetry logging, set the following environment variable:

```bash
NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE=1
```

> With this enabled, Next.js will provide detailed span information in the logs, making it easier to debug and understand request flow.

Reviewer: What do you think about sharing an example of why this is useful?

Author: added with a comparison

### Tracing API Requests and Page Loads

#### Tracing API Routes

Next.js automatically creates spans for API requests. For example, a request to /api/user will generate spans like:
- next.js /api/user request
- next.js /api/user handler
- fetch /external-api (if the API calls another service)

If you have an API route in pages/api/user.ts:

```javascript
export default async function handler(req, res) {
  res.status(200).json({ name: 'John Doe' });
}
```

You can observe spans for:
✅ Incoming request (GET /api/user)
✅ Response timing

> ✅ Any internal or external API calls

Reviewer: What do you think about showing a screenshot of a flame graph for one of these spans?

#### Tracing Page Router (Pages Directory)

For traditional Next.js pages (pages/index.js):

```javascript
export default function HomePage() {
  return <h1>Welcome to Next.js</h1>;
}
```

When a user navigates to /, Next.js automatically creates spans for:
- next.js / (page load)
- next.js render /index
- fetch spans (if the page makes API calls)

#### Tracing App Router (App Directory)

If you’re using the Next.js App Router (app/page.tsx), spans will include:
- Page load spans (next.js /app/page.tsx)
- Server component execution spans (next.js /layout.tsx)

> - Data fetching spans for fetch() calls in server components

Reviewer: What about things like `get*Props` methods?

For example, an app router component:

```javascript
export default function Page() {
  return <h1>Welcome to the App Router!</h1>;
}
```

> will automatically generate spans for rendering and hydration.

Reviewer: WDYT about adding a screenshot of a flame graph for one of these?

### Logging in OpenTelemetry

To correlate logs with traces, install OpenTelemetry logging:

```bash
yarn add @opentelemetry/sdk-logs
```

Modify `otel.js`:

```javascript
import { LoggerProvider } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-logs';
import { ConsoleLogger } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-logs';

const loggerProvider = new LoggerProvider();
const logger = loggerProvider.getLogger('nextjs-logger');

logger.emit({
  severityText: 'INFO',
  body: 'Application started',

> });

Reviewer: WDYT about exporting the logger and/or cleaning up the API like you would in a real-world use case? Also, is there a way to tie into the Next.js logger to send all logs to OTel?

Author: expanded on this, lmk what you think!

```

> This allows you to log messages that correlate with traces.

Reviewer: Does this happen out of the box? I thought it required some additional setup. Not sure if it's worth going into here?

> ### Capturing Exceptions with Spans

Reviewer: What about capturing errors via [`onRequestError`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/instrumentation#onrequesterror-optional)?

Author: added!

To capture exceptions inside traces, you can manually add error attributes to spans. Modify your API route:

```javascript
import { trace } from '@opentelemetry/api';

export default async function handler(req, res) {
  const span = trace.getActiveSpan();
  
  try {
    throw new Error('Something went wrong!');
  } catch (error) {
    if (span) {

>       span.setAttribute('error', true);

Reviewer: Nit, but is this attribute a convention we came up with? Wondering why it's included here. I assume it's to make it easier to find spans with exceptions?

      span.recordException(error);
    }
    res.status(500).json({ error: 'Internal Server Error' });
  }
}
```
This ensures that the error is captured within the OpenTelemetry trace and can be visualized in your tracing backend.

### Exporting Metrics

> Next.js applications often benefit from metrics like request count, latency, and errors. Modify `otel.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next.js applications often benefit from metrics like request count, latency, and errors. Here's how to add instrumentation for request tracking in `otel.js`:
```

```javascript
import { MeterProvider } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-metrics';

const meter = new MeterProvider().getMeter('nextjs-meter');
const requestCounter = meter.createCounter('http_requests_total', {
  description: 'Counts total HTTP requests',
});

export function trackRequest() {
  requestCounter.add(1);
}
```

Then, use it in an API route:
```javascript
import { trackRequest } from '../../otel';

export default function handler(req, res) {
  trackRequest();
  res.status(200).json({ message: 'Metrics tracked!' });
}
```

> ### Simplifying with @vercel/otel

Reviewer: WDYT about calling out some of the complexities + limitations of the manual instrumentation we've built up so far before going into @vercel/otel?

Author: reworked this!

If you’re deploying your Next.js application on Vercel, the easiest way to integrate OpenTelemetry is by using the @vercel/otel package. This package simplifies the entire setup process and automatically enables distributed tracing for your application.

> What is @vercel/otel?

Reviewer: Should this be a heading?

@vercel/otel is an official package from Vercel that adds built-in support for OpenTelemetry in your Next.js app. It eliminates the need to manually configure OpenTelemetry SDKs, exporters, and instrumentations, offering you:
- Automatic tracing for API routes, pages, and server-side rendering (SSR)
- Built-in span creation for Next.js internals
- Exception tracking out of the box
- Export to OpenTelemetry-compatible backends (e.g., Highlight.io)

> We've covered this topic in more detail previously with our [blog on setting up @vercel/otel in next.js](./how-to-use-opentelemetry-to-monitor-nextjs-apps.md), so make sure to check it out for a full guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've covered this topic in more detail previously with our [blog on setting up @vercel/otel in Next.js](./how-to-use-opentelemetry-to-monitor-nextjs-apps.md), so make sure to check it out for a full guide.
```

### Putting it all together

Let's put all of the pieces together and create a complete `otel.js` file that will automatically instrument your Next.js app. Using `@vercel/otel`, we'll configure export for Highlight.io, but you can use any other OpenTelemetry-compatible backend:

```typescript
import { registerOTel } from "@vercel/otel";
import { SimpleSpanProcessor } from "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node";
import { PeriodicExportingMetricReader } from "@opentelemetry/sdk-metrics";
import { SimpleLogRecordProcessor } from "@opentelemetry/sdk-logs";
import { OTLPTraceExporter } from "@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc";
import { OTLPMetricExporter } from "@opentelemetry/exporter-metrics-otlp-grpc";
import { OTLPLogExporter } from "@opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-grpc";

export function register() {

>   if (process.env.NEXT_RUNTIME === "nodejs") {

Reviewer: Is this conditional necessary? I thought the edge runtime was supported by @vercel/otel?

    registerOTel({
      serviceName: "my-next-js-app",
      attributes: {
        "highlight.project_id": "<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>",
        "deployment.environment.name": process.env.NODE_ENV,
      },
      propagators: ["auto"],
      spanProcessors: [
        new SimpleSpanProcessor(
          new OTLPTraceExporter({
            url: "https://otel.highlight.io:4317/v1/traces",
            keepAlive: true,
          }),
        ),
      ],
      logRecordProcessor: new SimpleLogRecordProcessor(
        new OTLPLogExporter({
          url: "https://otel.highlight.io:4317/v1/logs",
          keepAlive: true,
        }),
      ),
      metricReader: new PeriodicExportingMetricReader({
        exporter: new OTLPMetricExporter({
          url: "https://otel.highlight.io:4317/v1/metrics",
          keepAlive: true,
        }),
      }),
    });
  }
}
```

Now, let's use the OpenTelemetry SDK in our route to emit data:

```typescript
import { NextResponse } from "next/server";
import api, { propagation } from "@opentelemetry/api";
import { logs, SeverityNumber } from "@opentelemetry/api-logs";

export async function GET() {
  const { email, name } = req.query;

>   // Here, you would typically make a call to your Python service

Reviewer: Python service?

  // passing the user's email or other identifier
  // For now, we'll just log the information and return mock data
  console.log(`Fetching data for user: ${email} ${name}`);

>   // In a real implementation, you would fetch data from the Garmin Health API here

Reviewer: Garmin Health API?

  const tracerProvider = api.trace.getTracerProvider();
  const tracer = tracerProvider.getTracer("data");
  const data = await tracer.startActiveSpan(
    "data.fetch",
    {
      attributes: {
        "user.email": email || undefined,
        "user.name": name || undefined,
      },
    },
    async () => {
      console.log("Fetching data...", { email });
      const headers = {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        Authorization: `Basic ${process.env.PYTHON_API_SECRET}`,
      };
      propagation.inject(api.context.active(), headers);
      const response = await fetch(

>         `${process.env.PYTHON_API_HOSTNAME}/users/scrape`,

Reviewer: Python...

Author: haha, this was my example app where i'm calling a python backend from my next.js backend (totally valid). will remove the env var tho and add some comments to make this more clear.

        {
          method: "POST",
          headers,
          body: JSON.stringify({
            email,
          }),
        },
      );
      if (!response.ok) {
        throw new Error("Failed to fetch data");
      }
      return await response.json();
    },
  );

  const meterProvider = api.metrics.getMeterProvider();
  const meter = meterProvider.getMeter("data");
  const gauge = meter.createObservableGauge("data.metric");
  for (const d of data) {
    gauge.addCallback((m) => {
      m.observe(d.attribute);
    });
  }

  const provider = logs.getLoggerProvider();
  const logger = provider.getLogger("data");
  logger.emit({
    severityNumber: SeverityNumber.INFO,
    severityText: "INFO",
    body: "returning data",
    attributes: { data },
  });

>   return NextResponse.json(data);

Reviewer: Sorry, but this code example is confusing to me... Isn't most of what we're doing here already handled by `registerOtel`? What do you think about showing off some examples of the data collected and then add a couple additional details showing how to emit a log and metrics to enhance the data we're already getting?

Also, WDYT about showing a cleaner API for metrics and logs where we create a utility to provide a better DX to emit logs/metrics?

Author: good idea - cleaned this up to add an explanation and added an example using the `@highlight-run/node` sdk

```

### Conclusion

By integrating OpenTelemetry into your Next.js app, you gain:

✅ Automatic tracing for API routes and page loads

✅ Detailed spans for App Router and Page Router

✅ Exception tracking within spans

✅ Structured logging with correlation to traces

✅ Custom metrics for tracking performance

> With NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE=1, you can further debug your application’s span structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE=1`, you can further debug your application’s span structure.
```

> Now, send your telemetry data to a backend like Jaeger, Prometheus, or Honeycomb and start gaining powerful insights into your Next.js application! 🚀

Reviewer: Honeycomb?

Author: 🥹 chatgpt

---
title: The complete guide to OpenTelemetry in Next.js
createdAt: 2025-02-10T12:00:00.000Z
readingTime: 14
authorFirstName: Vadim
authorLastName: Korolik
authorTitle: CTO @ Highlight
authorTwitter: 'https://twitter.com/vkorolik'
authorLinkedIn: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/vkorolik/'
authorGithub: 'https://github.com/Vadman97'
authorWebsite: 'https://vadweb.us'
authorPFP: 'https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/AOh14Gh1k7XsVMGxHMLJZ7qesyddqn1y4EKjfbodEYiY=s96-c'
tags: 'Engineering, Backend, Observability'
metaTitle: The complete guide to OpenTelemetry in Next.js
---

```hint

> Highlight.io is an [open source](https://github.com/highlight/highlight) monitoring platform. If you’re interested in learning more, learn more or try it out at [highlight.io](https://highlight.io).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Highlight.io is an [open source](https://github.com/highlight/highlight) monitoring platform. Check out [highlight.io](https://highlight.io) if you’re interested in learning more.
```

```
<br/>

OpenTelemetry is an important specification that defines how we send telemetry data to observability backends like Highlight.io, Grafana, and others. OpenTelemetry is great because it is vendor agnostic, and can be used with several observability backends. If you're new to OpenTelemetry, you can learn more about it [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ASgosEzG4Pw). 

> Today, we'll go through a complete guide to using OpenTelemetry in Next.js, including the high-level concepts as well as how to send traces, logs, and metrics to your OpenTelemetry backend of choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This complete guide to OpenTelemetry in Next.js covers high-level concepts as well as how to send traces, logs, and metrics to your OpenTelemetry backend of choice.
```

## Setting Up OpenTelemetry for Next.js: Tracing, Logging, and Metrics

Let's walk through setting up OpenTelemetry in a Next.js project, covering:
- Tracing: Capturing distributed traces for API requests and page transitions
- Logging: Collecting structured logs that correlate with traces
- Metrics: Exporting performance and custom application metrics

There are several reasons that make OTel a great choice for monitoring your Next.js application:
- Built-in Spans: Next.js provides automatic spans at the framework level
- Exception Tracking: Errors are automatically captured within traces by the framework
- Simplified Setup: [@vercel/otel](https://vercel.com/docs/observability/otel-overview) eliminates the need to manually configure OpenTelemetry SDKs, exporters, and instrumentations

> By the end of this tutorial, you'll have all the observability data you need to be proactively notified when
> something goes wrong, troubleshoot issues quickly, and fix performance bottlenecks in the critical parts of your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By the end of this tutorial, you'll have all the observability data you need to be proactively notified when something goes wrong, troubleshoot issues quickly, and fix performance bottlenecks in the critical parts of your code.
```

### Installing OpenTelemetry in Next.js

> In the past, we've covered instrumenting Next.js with `@vercel/otel` in our [blog on using @vercel/otel in Next.js](./lw5-vercel-otel-nextjs-tracing.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've covered instrumenting Next.js with `@vercel/otel` in our [blog post on using @vercel/otel in Next.js](./lw5-vercel-otel-nextjs-tracing.md).
```

  sampler: new AlwaysOnSampler(),
  instrumentations: [new HttpInstrumentation(), new FetchInstrumentation()],
})

sdk.start();
console.log('OpenTelemetry initialized');
```

To trigger this file to run when the app starts, you can invoke it from the Next.js magic `instrumentation.ts` file.

```typescript
export function register() {
  await import('./otel');
}
```

The [instrumentation.ts file](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/instrumentation) is automatically detected by Next.js and will run when the app starts. Before Next.js 15, the instrumentation is experimental, so you will have to enable it explicitly:

```typescript
module.exports = {
  experimental: {
    instrumentationHook: true,
  },
};
```

### Configuring Tracing

With the SDK configured, your application will start to export the telemetry data using the exporters defined.
However, you may wonder what data is being captured without any explicit code added.

[Next.js has built-in OpenTelemetry spans](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/open-telemetry#default-spans-in-nextjs)
for various parts of the application, including:

> - API routes (pages/api or app/api)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- API routes (`pages/api` or `app/api`)
```

- Page router (Pages Directory)
- App router (App Directory)

Some top-level spans are emitted out-of-the-box, while others can be turned on by turning on verbose logging:

```bash
NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE=1
```

Setting the `NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE` environment variable will emit additional traces that give you more granularity of the code execution.

For example, here's a flame graph visualization of a trace without verbose tracing, `NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE=0`:

![](/images/blog/nextjs-otel/not-verbose.png)

And here's the same trace with verbose tracing enabled, `NEXT_OTEL_VERBOSE=1`:

![](/images/blog/nextjs-otel/verbose.png)

Let's go through some examples of the data that can be captured.

![](/images/blog/nextjs-otel/trace.png)

In the image above, you can see the trace start with an api route request that is piped through Next.js to the API handler.
We also see a custom span that wraps an ourgoing API request to another service. Because we set up auto-instrumentation, 
we capture the `fetch` call automatically, and can even propagate the trace context to the backend service.

> Here's a list of the top-level spans that are captured automatically by Next.js:

Reviewer: Nit, but the formatting is a bit wonky in this section. WDYT about making the span name bold and then putting the description on the same line? e.g.

* **BaseServer.handleRequest** - Named `[http.method] [next.route]`, [the root span for each incoming request to your Next.js application](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/open-telemetry#httpmethod-nextroute).

    'highlight.project_id': '<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>',
  }),
  spanProcessors: [spanProcessor],
  logRecordProcessors: [logProcessor],
  metricReader: metricReader,
  traceExporter: exporter,
  contextManager: new AsyncLocalStorageContextManager(),
  sampler: new AlwaysOnSampler(),
  instrumentations: [new HttpInstrumentation(), new FetchInstrumentation()],
})

sdk.start();
```

Now, let's use the OpenTelemetry SDK in our route to emit data:

```typescript
import { NextResponse } from "next/server";
import api, { propagation } from "@opentelemetry/api";
import { logs, SeverityNumber } from "@opentelemetry/api-logs";

const tracerProvider = api.trace.getTracerProvider();
const tracer = tracerProvider.getTracer("data");

const loggerProvider = logs.getLoggerProvider();
const logger = provider.getLogger("data");

const meterProvider = api.metrics.getMeterProvider();
const meter = meterProvider.getMeter("data");

// This is an example implementation of a route that fetches data from a Python service
export async function GET() {
  const { email, name } = req.query;

  console.log(`Fetching data for user: ${email} ${name}`);

  // create a span for the data fetch

>   const data = await tracer.startActiveSpan(

Reviewer: Don't we actually get this span automatically from `@opentelemetry/instrumentation-fetch`? Wondering if we should use a different example 🤔

            email,
          }),
        },
      );
      if (!response.ok) {
        throw new Error("Failed to fetch data");
      }
      return await response.json();
    },
  );

  // report the data as a metric
  const gauge = meter.createObservableGauge("data.metric");
  for (const d of data) {
    gauge.addCallback((m) => {
      m.observe(d.attribute);
    });
  }

  // emit a custom log
  logger.emit({
    severityNumber: SeverityNumber.INFO,
    severityText: "INFO",
    body: "returning data",
    attributes: { data },
  });

  return NextResponse.json(data);
```

In this full handler example, you can see how to emit a trace, log, and metric using the native OpenTelemetry constructs. It's evident that the API is quite verbose and not simple to work with. For the highlight platform, we've created a [Node.js SDK that wraps OpenTelemetry](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/main/sdk/highlight-node/src/client.ts) to simplify the API streamline data reporting, with simple APIs. For example, here's the same handler using our SDK:

```typescript
import { H } from '@highlight-run/node';
H.init('YOUR_PROJECT_ID', {
  // ... options to configure the SDK

> });

Reviewer: Should we mention where this goes? Does it belong in `instrumentation.ts`?
